[Music]
so usually one crazy thing about a new
piece of tech is enough to get my
attention just something out of the
ordinary about it but this new Mac Mini
has three things about it that are
insane so instead of having an event
this year Apple decided to do a bunch of
press releases in a row for the last
week of October to update their whole
Mac lineup to M4 and one of them was for
this new Mac Mini now a lot of us might
not give too much thought to the Mac
Mini like yeah maybe it holds an
important place as the most affordable
Mac but if you're not buying one you're
not really thinking about it too much
but the number one most insane thing
about this refresh is well I mean look
at it it's tiny it is absolutely tiny
Apple's gone through and redesigned
basically all of their computers now
that have gotten the Apple silicon
update well except this one this is the
same design as a while ago but the Mac
Mini was kind of technically overdue for
a redesign and the new one it actually
kind of looks a little bit more like a
shrunken Mac Studio than a shrunken Old
Mac Mini but it's now a 5 in by 5 in
footprint and 2 in tall I'll say that
again a 5x 5x 2 desktop computer now I
like small desktops and yes you could
get a tiny desktop computer before
there's plenty of amazing Mini ITX build
videos all over the Internet that I've
watched for years they're sick there's
levels to this there's small computers
and then there's tiny computers this Mac
Mini is smaller than my R5 with a lens
on it it's smaller than a new roll of
duct tape it's smaller than the
footprint of the new iPhone and barely
bigger than the absolutely tiny Apple TV
Apple seemingly had this obsession with
making certain computers as small as
possible even before Apple silicon came
along so this has just kind of unlocked
another level for them to push it even
further than ever before uh yeah there
are fans in here uh but there are also
ports on the back gigabit Ethernet by
default full- sizee HDMI still here and
then three Thunderbolt ports on the back
and then there's two USBC 3 ports on the
front front plus a headphone jack so
still no SD card reader and there's
obviously now no more usba if you tried
to build or buy another computer to
match this thing uh you will either end
up building a computer that's just as
small but nowhere near as capable or a
computer that's just as capable but
nowhere near as small is just the
hilariously
unnecessarily tiny computer it's great I
would also like to start a new
conspiracy theory I would like to use
this video to start a conspiracy theory
I think that there is someone whose job
it is at Apple someone whose sole
purpose is to come up with one obnoxious
thing to complain about for every new
Apple product redesign like this is the
person that put the notch on the iPhone
this is the person that put the charge
port at the bottom of the Magic Mouse
and this person's best work is right
here on this new Mac mini putting the
power button on the bottom of it like
why there are so many better places to
put a power button like at the front or
the side or literally anywhere on the
back like all the other small Mac
desktops or at the top that would have
been fine too but no they chose behind
the back
corner which is just I mean I don't use
that button very often I don't really
turn the Mac on and off with the button
almost ever um I might sleep it and and
wake it back up and maybe every couple
weeks I'll have to remember that the
button's back there but yeah it's it's
just dumb enough to get memd on and
complained about without actually being
an issue well played guy but yeah you
know the typical consequences of a
computer getting smaller are battery
speakers and thermals there's just less
room inside for those things battery of
course doesn't make a huge difference on
a desktop who cares speakers kind of the
same thing who cares and thermals have
been redesigned in a way that seemed to
be working just fine this thing hardly
gets over a peep if you do heavy stuff
the single fan spins up and you can hear
it but it's always been quiet sitting on
the desk you hardly hear it so then the
number two insane thing about the new
Mac Mini is that the base model is kind
of an incredible deal now no like I
don't think you understand I think it's
actually one of the best deals in Tech
it's certainly the best side of any of
Apple's new product offerings right now
and I mean I kind of not used to saying
it but it is a really good deal so this
base M4 Mac Mini costs $5.99 right so
for that you get the base computer with
the M4 chip which is quietly doubled to
16 gigs of unified memory instead of
eight from before it's the 10 core CPU
and the 10 core GPU now we're four
generations into Apple silicon and the
gains are actually kind of starting to
stack up versus M1 we already know it
was a huge difference from the Intel
chips but I actually want to get a
little bit more into that in the MacBook
Pro review because I've been using an M1
Max MacBook Pro for 3 years since it
came out and the M4 Max is the first one
that's actually tempted me to upgrade
between generations of Apple silicon
it's really interesting so get
subscribed and stay tuned for that video
when it comes out but the main thing you
need to know is this base M4 chip is
great super solid and power efficient at
everyday normal activities like web
browsing and music streaming and
multitasking like crazy and it can
handle what I think I would call medium
grade activities very easily not heavy
stuff like graphically intensive gaming
or a heavy video editing but pretty much
anything short of that this could be a
coding and developing machine this could
be a photo editing machine pixel Mater
runs like a dream and fun fact Apple
just bought pixel Mater interestingly um
but yeah just having a ton of Arc tabs
open stuff like that like just running
around multitasking it runs like a dream
it's great it's as good as you'd expect
the world's fastest single core
performer to do so yeah Mac Mini you
know four years like I said has been the
most affordable Mac the sort of entry
point for anyone to get into Mac OS but
this year with the doubling of the base
memory it just feels like a particularly
good deal think of it this way the M4
iMac that also just got refreshed is
basically the exact same computer but
just in an upright desktop with a
non-replaceable display that starts at
$1,299
so you can use that $700 difference to
kind of get whatever screen you want now
you can obviously also upgrade from the
base Mac Mini but I don't think you
should and I'll explain why see apple is
known for building what I've called a
price ladder and I'm just trying to get
you to climb as high as possible they do
this across all their products but
there's basically always a really
tempting upgrade sitting right above the
base model and then when you spend that
money you're kind of right underneath
another tempting upgrade then they kind
of walk you up trying to get you to
spend as much money as possible it's
really smart they do it with iPhones and
with iPads and with everything else this
Bas Mac Mini I'm telling you is a good
deal but it only has 256 gigs of storage
and many people are fine with that and
they can live with that that's great but
if you know you're going to be working
with a lot of media a lot of video then
you start looking at upgrades to the
storage and that's where you'll find
that walking it up to a terabyte costs
$400 more
or if you plan to do some wired
networking bumping it up to 10 gig
ethernet costs1 more dollars on top of
that for the price of just those
upgrades you can almost get an entire
another Mac Mini it's crazy like
basically across the board Apple's
upgrade pricing is pretty crazy with
this computer which is why I'm
specifically saying the base model is
such a good deal and actually if you're
lucky enough to have a edu email address
right now the student discount drops it
down to $4.99 which is sick but once you
know you're going to be doing upgrades
to the pre purchase spec which you have
to know before buying it because you
can't upgrade it after the fact all the
memory everything is built in um then it
becomes more of a normal deal I do want
to say this though so the third and
final crazy thing about this Mac Mini is
that the maxed out version has a case
for the best portable workstation Mac
now this doesn't apply to everybody this
is coming from me someone who used to
drag an iMac Pro in a Pelican case
through the airport to events because it
was the fastest editing machine that I
could reasonably travel with and it
actually made sense for me so coming
from that perspective this new Mac Mini
is sick so looking at the Mac Studios
those aren't upgraded to M4 yet they've
all got the M2 generation and it's also
not going to be the Mac Pro which is
also still on the M2 generation and
obviously not portable the iMac is on M4
but there's no Pro chips so it's just
the base M4 chip so this Mac Mini is the
easiest way to pack an M4 Pro chip with
you and just throw it in a travel bag
super easily an equivalent spec MacBook
Pro with M4 Pro starts at $2,000 which
is actually another decently good deal
as far as performance but if you don't
need a laptop or if you just want to
plug and play into monitors wherever you
go$ 1399 gets you the M4 Pro Mac Mini
and that upgrade also gets you the back
Thunderbolt ports being Thunderbolt 5
instead of Thunderbolt 4 so it can
support three 6K displays instead of two
so I've had and been testing the M4 Pro
here with 48 gigs of memory and fun fact
if you run through some synthetic
benchmarks this runs up the highest CPU
score of any desktop Mac ever that
includes the Mac Pro and the Mac Studios
and all of them uh this is by far the
most powerful single core we've ever
seen by a lot and then multi-core just
barely tops geek bench's alltime Mac
list though as we know CPU doesn't
really bump up all that much when you go
from bass to Pro to Max to ultra it's
way more GPU stuff stuff and so when you
look at GPU benchmarks the most powerful
Mac Mini here with the M4 Pro it was
putting up M1 Max numbers which again
shows how much these Generations over
time have been improving and stacking on
top of each other I've been editing
videos on an M1 Max laptop for 3 years
now on the MacBook Pro so this Mac Mini
feels like one of those impossibly small
computers Apple's like always kind of
wanted to make even before APPA silicon
like you probably remember some of their
earlier attempts like the trash can Mac
Pro no doubt they wanted to do something
crazy they wanted to put a workstation
class computer on the desk cooled by a
single fan we saw how that went with the
Intel chip inside or even some of those
razor thin I9 MacBook Pros that started
having overheating issues but now that
Apple silicon has gotten this good and
this efficient over time they're
actually able to make tiny powerful
computers like the Mac Studio and now
like this Little Mac Mini over here
nobody was asking for the Mac Mini to be
even
smaller except for those people people
in The Spaceship Campus somewhere in
California well played well played
thanks for watching catch you guys in
the next one peace
[Music]